JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
race for the
White House officially shifts
gears to the
general election, with both
tickets set and
both conventions behind us.
Plus: digging up London's
history, while reshaping
the iconic city's look for the
future.
HEATHER KNIGHT, Archaeologist:
If we were
standing here on, say, a lovely
summer's afternoon
in the 1590s, we'd actually be
standing on
the stage of the Curtain
Playhouse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Mark Shields
and David
Brooks consider the biggest
convention moments,
and look at the campaign that
lies ahead.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: With their
national conventions
in the rear-view mirror, the
presidential
candidates head out on the road
to target
states that could go either way,
and help
determine the election outcome.
Correspondent Lisa Desjardins
begins our coverage.
LISA DESJARDINS: The newly
minted Democratic
ticket made its first
post-convention campaign
stop at Temple University, just
minutes from
last night's political party.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
What better place to kick off
this campaign
than right here in Philadelphia?
LISA DESJARDINS: For three days,
the maiden
bus tour will wind through the
Rust Belt battlegrounds
of Pennsylvania and Ohio.
Clinton will be joined by her
husband, Bill,
as well as running mate, Tim
Kaine, and his
wife, Anne.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I can't
think of an
election that is more important
certainly
in my lifetime, and it's not so
much that
I'm on the ticket.
It is because of the stark
choice that is
posed to America in this
election.
LISA DESJARDINS: Today was about
November.
Last night was about history, as
Clinton became
the first woman to accept a
major party's
presidential nomination.
For many of her supporters, it
was an emotional
night.
WOMAN: It's a trailblazer moment
for me.
It kind of tells me that I can
be anything
that I want to be when I grow
up, with some
hard work and dedication.
LISA DESJARDINS: Countering that
narrative
was Republican Donald Trump, who
launched
a barrage of tweets this
morning, including:
"Crooked Hillary Clinton
mentioned me 22 times
in her very long and very boring
speech.
Many of her statements were lies
and fabrications."
Later this afternoon, Trump
spoke at a campaign
rally in Colorado springs.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I watched last night.
I watched Hillary Clinton.
(BOOING)
DONALD TRUMP: What a sad, what a
sad situation.
And I watched her last night
giving a speech
that was so average.
LISA DESJARDINS: On this first
official day
of the general election fight,
there are new
concerns today over political
cyber-security.
Reuters reported today that the
computer network
used by the Clinton campaign was
hacked.
Also today, the Democratic
Congressional Campaign
Committee, a group focused on
the House of
Representatives, said its
computers have been
hacked.
The FBI is investigating and
said the breaches
resemble an earlier cyber-attack
on the Democratic
National Committee.
That intrusion revealed e-mails
in which party
officials privately berated
Clinton's primary
opponent, Bernie Sanders.
Clinton's team has said the hack
reveals a
problem with Trump and his
relationship with
Russia, who intelligence experts
suspect of
being responsible.
Trump himself denies
involvement.
He did publicly ask Russia to
find e-mails
missing from Clinton's private
e-mail server,
but he insists those remarks
were sarcastic.
In an interview on CNN this
morning, Clinton's
running mate called the remarks
ignorant.
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
And when Donald Trump is
basically trying
to encourage them to do it with
respect to
the U.S. election, I think an
awful lot of
people will see that and say
that that is
temperamentally disqualification
for the office.
LISA DESJARDINS: It is a first
volley in a
campaign where national security
promises
to loom large.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: From the campaign
trail to
a major legal decision in a
swing state.
A federal appeals court today
struck down
a North Carolina law requiring
voters to show
certain forms of identification
at the polls.
It determined the legislation
was passed with
-- quote -- "racially
discriminatory intent."
We will take a closer look at
today's decision,
and its effect, right after this
news summary.
In the day's other news: The
governor of Florida
said that his state likely has
the first local
Zika outbreak in the continental
U.S. Mosquitoes
are transmitting the virus in
two Miami-area
counties.
So far, four people, one woman
and three men,
have been infected.
Governor Rick Scott announced
the homegrown
Zika outbreak this morning.
GOV.
RICK SCOTT (R), Florida: Now
that Florida
has become the first state to
have a local
transmission, likely through a
mosquito, we
will continue to put every
resource available
to fighting the spread of Zika
in our state.
If it becomes clear more
resources are need,
we will not hesitate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Over 1,650 Zika
infections
have been reported across the
U.S., but, up
until now, they have been linked
to travel
outside the U.S. mainland.
Six more state officials in
Michigan have
been charged with misconduct and
neglect in
Flint's water crisis.
Investigators found employees in
the state's
health and environmental
departments hid or
manipulated evidence of
dangerous lead levels
in the city's tap water.
Michigan's attorney general
announced the
new charges today at a news
conference in
Flint.
BILL SCHUETTE, Michigan Attorney
General:
Each of these individuals
attempted to bury
or cover up, to downplay or to
hide information
that contradicted their own
narrative, their
story.
And their narrative and their
story was, there's
nothing wrong with Flint water,
and it was
perfectly safe to use.
In essence, these individuals
concealed the
truth.
They were criminally wrong to do
so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nine Michigan
public officials
are now facing prosecution for
their roles
in the tainted water crisis.
Today, investigators insisted
they're -- quote
-- "working their way up" in the
probe.
In Syria, three airstrikes hit a
maternity
hospital supported by the
charity Save the
Children.
It was located in an
opposition-held area
in Idlib province.
At least two people were killed.
The bombing followed an
overnight U.S.-led
coalition airstrike that killed
28 civilians
in an Islamic State-controlled
village elsewhere
in the north.
Turkey's president said today
that he will
drop all lawsuits against
hundreds of people
charged in Turkey with insulting
him.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan also lashed
out at Western
powers for not showing
solidarity with Turkey
in the wake of a failed military
coup earlier
this month.
Pentagon officials denied that
the U.S. played
any role in supporting the coup.
The International Organization
for Migration
today confirmed a dramatic surge
in deaths
among migrants attempting to
cross the Mediterranean.
It reported more than 3,000
migrants and refugees
have died so far this year.
That is a 60 percent increase in
deaths over
the same period last year.
In Poland, Pope Francis paid a
visit to the
former Nazi death camp at
Auschwitz today.
The pontiff spent much of his
pilgrimage in
quiet contemplation, honoring
the more than
a million victims who died there
during the
Holocaust.
He also met with several
survivors and Christian
Poles who rescued Jews.
His only public comment was a
message written
in the site's guest book, saying
-- quote
-- "Lord, forgive so much
cruelty."
Stocks were mixed on Wall Street
today, after
a slower-than-expected GDP
growth report.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 24 points
to close at 18432.
The Nasdaq rose seven points,
and the S&P
500 added three.
For the week, both the Dow and
the S&P 500
were down a fraction of a
percent.
The Nasdaq rose more than 1
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
North Carolina's
voter I.D. law requirement
struck down; new
developments in the hack against
the Democratic
Party; a look back at the
biggest moments
from the Republican and
Democratic Conventions;
and much more.
Now: another major ruling about
voting laws
that could impact the upcoming
election.
A federal appeals court today
struck down
several of North Carolina's
voting rules,
ruling that they were
intentionally designed
to discriminate against black
voters.
William Brangham has the latest.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Before we get
to the ruling,
a bit of background.
Three years ago, the
GOP-controlled legislature
in North Carolina changed the
voting rules
in their state.
They passed stricter voter I.D.
requirements,
and cut back on things like
early voting and
same-day voter registration.
Those were reforms Democrats had
put in place
years before.
But today's ruling by the Fourth
Circuit Court
of Appeals said that those
changes discriminated
against black voters.
The court said -- quote -- "The
new provisions
target African-Americans with
almost surgical
precision," and that these
voting rules impose
cures for problems that didn't
exist.
Joining me now to wade through
all the implications
of all this is Kareem Crayton.
He is a visiting professor of
law at Vanderbilt
University.
Professor Crayton, thank you.
This is a very sweeping ruling
by the court
today.
The court basically argued that
the state
of North Carolina intentionally
discriminated
against voters.
I mean, that's a pretty rare
finding, isn't
it?
KAREEM CRAYTON, Voting Rights
Scholar, Vanderbilt
University: That's true.
In the modern era, most of these
cases get
litigated under a concern about
the effects
of the law, whether they were
disproportionately
affecting one group or the
other.
This is one where the court went
so far as
to say that the purposes for
which this law
was adopted were those that
prohibited -- were
prohibited by law, that they
were racially
discriminatory and targeting
African-Americans
in a way that the law doesn't
permit.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What was it
specifically
that the court found so
troubling?
KAREEM CRAYTON: Well, there were
a number
of circumstances under which
this law was
adopted that raised some serious
suspicions.
First, there was the adoption of
the law on
the heels of a United States
Supreme Court
ruling, Shelby County vs.
Holder, which had
a number of protections against
any discrimination
or to allow for any
discrimination protections
for African-Americans, and North
Carolina
quickly rushed through this
statute.
In addition to that, the
legislature had information
in front of it identifying those
avenues for
participation that
African-Americans
disproportionately
tended to take advantage of.
And when you look at the kinds
of things that
the new law prescribed or
restricted, they
really cleverly matched up with
those areas,
those avenues that
African-Americans used
more often than not.
And I think the selectivity, of
these restrictions
ultimately raised the specter of
discriminatory
intent.
So, taking all of that into
account, in addition
to the fact, of course, that
North Carolina
has a pretty long history of
discrimination
with respect to race, and the
court found
more recent evidence of
discrimination in
the redistricting cases, this
court was willing
to say that there was a pretty
strong claim
that the purposes for this
statute were some
of the same considerations that
were behind
the 14th Amendment's prohibition
of assuring
that states shouldn't take race
into account
in creating new laws.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And supporters
in North
Carolina of these laws say this
had nothing
to do with racial
discrimination.
They were trying to target, they
said, voter
fraud.
You lived in North Carolina and
taught there
for a while.
Was voter fraud a problem in
North Carolina?
KAREEM CRAYTON: Well, the
problem with that
argument is that -- I tend to do
work based
on evidence and data -- and
there was no data
available to the legislature
showing that
voter fraud was that kind of
consideration
that was actually meriting some
sort of regulation,
or they hadn't uncovered any
evidence that
voter fraud was a problem to be
solved.
To the extent that there was
voter fraud,
it sounds like many -- there is
actually some
evidence that members of the
legislature had
engaged in voter fraud.
And none of that in some ways
was regulated.
The stuff that they seemed to be
going after
was sort of the specter, the
illusion of voter
fraud, as opposed to the actual
evidence of
voter fraud.
And that's also another factor
that sort of
influenced the court's analysis
in this case.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: North Carolina
obviously
isn't the only state around the
nation that
is currently changing their
voting laws.
Why do you think we're seeing
such an uptick
in this sudden reformation of
voting laws
nationwide?
KAREEM CRAYTON: Well, I think
one of the considerations
is that a lot of the
legislatures after 2010
changed hands.
The Republicans were very
effective at winning
a lot of races in an off-year
election, when
turnout tends to be lower.
In cases like North Carolina,
which is understood
to be a purple state -- you
probably will
be covering this a lot in the
upcoming presidential
election -- the legislature
recognizes that
in many -- excuse me, statewide
contests,
every vote tends to make a
difference.
And so, from their perspective,
I think, from
a partisan perspective, the
court even recognized
there might be some advantage to
be had by
Republicans limiting populations
that tend
to vote for Democrats.
And what the court in this case
said was,
even if that's present, it
doesn't forgive
the targeting of people based
upon race.
And that was the offensive part
under the
analysis of the Voting Rights
Act and the
Constitution.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So,
practically speaking,
if I'm a voter in North Carolina
and I go
to cast my ballot in this next
election, what
does this really mean?
What does this -- how does this
change anything?
KAREEM CRAYTON: Well, the court
was very clear
that this decision should have
immediate effect.
And so, while procedurally
sometimes you can
seek additional review, in this
case, the
fact that the court had seen
such rampant
evidence of intent to
discriminate, they made
sure that this was going to be
the law that
would apply for the upcoming
election.
So, if you're a voter in North
Carolina, the
law is now that you can proceed
to cast ballots
without the restrictions that
the legislature
put on the ballot -- excuse me
-- put on the
books in 2013.
Even if the court in D.C., the
Supreme Court,
were asked to review this case,
the time that
it would take to get through
that analysis
wouldn't be quick enough in
order to apply
to this claim in most cases.
So I think voters can
confidently proceed
under the view that they won't
have the same
kinds of restrictions that were
present in
2013 and 2014 because of the
statute.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Kareem Crayton,
Vanderbilt University School of
Law, thank
you very much.
KAREEM CRAYTON: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We return to the
hacking of
the Democratic National
Committee.
According to reports, U.S.
intelligence has
high confidence the Russian
government was
behind it.
Sources close to the
investigation told the
"NewsHour" one of the hackers
was also involved
in the breach of the Democratic
Congressional
Campaign Committee, and then
today's revelations
that Hillary Clinton's campaign
was also hacked.
We explore how the U.S.
government should
respond now with Susan
Hennessey.
She was an attorney in the
Office of the General
Counsel of the National Security
Agency.
She is now a fellow at the
Brookings Institution.
And Andrew Weiss, he has worked
for both Republican
and Democratic administrations
as a staffer
on the National Security
Council, in the State
and Defense Departments.
He is now at the Carnegie
Endowment for International
Peace.
And we welcome both of you to
the "NewsHour."
Susan Hennessey, let me start
with you.
Before I even ask you about the
hacking of
the Clinton campaign itself,
which we just
learned about this afternoon,
how confident
are you that it was the Russian
government
that was behind the hacking into
the DNC and
the Congressional Campaign
Committee?
SUSAN HENNESSEY, Brookings
Institution: All
right, so when attributing
cyber-attacks,
it's almost impossible to ever
be 100 percent
certain.
In this case, you are about as
certain as
you could reasonably expect to
be.
There were strong technical
indicators that
emerged as early as June.
Now I'm hearing that the
intelligence community
has reported to the president
high confidence.
That's a likely indicator that
they have found
corroborating evidence through
other intelligence
mechanisms, signals
intelligence, financial
intelligence, human intelligence
So, at this point, it's a fair
operating assumption.
There might be some room for
plausible deniability,
but it's really quite certain.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, I just
want to say,
we're having a little difficulty
with your
microphone.
We're going to trying to get
that fixed.
I'm going to turn right now to
Andrew Weiss.
What about you?
How much confidence do you have
that it's
clearly the Russian government
behind what
we know so far?
ANDREW WEISS, Carnegie Endowment
for International
Peace: Well, so far, this is a
very fast-moving
story.
And I think we all need to be
cautious, because
the facts are not clearly out
there.
Yesterday, General Clapper, who
is the president's
director of national
intelligence, was talking
in Aspen, and he said he wasn't
prepared at
this stage to make a call.
But so far, everything that has
dribbled out
seems to point in the direction
of some form
of Russian government
involvement.
There's been forensic data that
has been trumped
out -- dribbled into the press
that points
to comparable attacks that have
been attributed
to Russia over the past several
months.
And the attacks on the DNC and
the DCCC seem
to be fitting within the same
group of Russian
actors.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so, Andrew
Weiss, staying
with you, now that we're seeing
this report
just in -- late this afternoon
that the Clinton
campaign itself has been hacked,
what does
that tell you?
ANDREW WEISS: Well, about a
month or so ago,
General Clapper himself also
pointed to the
possibility that foreign
governments were
trying to hack into the U.S.
presidential
campaign staffs.
And so the word has been on the
street for
a while now that this is a very
toxic environment,
and that there is a lot of
interest in what
traditionally people would think
is confidential
or secret.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Susan Hennessey,
why would
the Russians do this?
I mean, there is a lot of
suspicion going
around maybe they want to tilt
the election
one way or another.
What is believed by the people
who study these
issues all the time?
SUSAN HENNESSEY: Well, so there
is a lot of
different explanations.
One is that there are -- there's
reasons why
a President Trump would be more
favorable
to Russian interests.
He's indicated positions, being
withdrawing
support from NATO, for example,
which is a
primary check on Russian global
power in the
world.
Additionally, the Russians have
a history
with Hillary Clinton, and
Vladimir Putin in
particular.
So they also have a reason to
oppose her.
They also have a reason to maybe
just demonstrate
that the U.S. has some
corruption in its elections
of its own.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Andrew
Weiss, what's your
sense of what motivations there
could be behind
what the Russians are doing?
ANDREW WEISS: Well, let's step
back a little
bit.
If you remember, the past three
years have
been a real down point in
U.S.-Russia relations.
And as a result of the severe
deterioration
in U.S.-Russia relations, the
Kremlin has
authorized any number of lines
of effort.
So we have seen cyber-attacks in
Europe.
We have seen support for
populist parties,
including Marine Le Pen in
France, financial
support, political support.
We have seen cyber-intrusions
against U.S.
allies.
We have seen overt military
intimidation.
We have Russian jets trying to
barrel-roll
U.S. military planes over the
Baltics.
The overall process of Russia
putting pressure
on the United States is
well-established.
The question now is, why were
these facts
from the DNC leaked publicly?
What was the goal?
What was the political
motivation?
And it seems in part to be -- to
create as
much confusion and to create as
big as mess
as possible.
To say that an attack that was
going back
12 months, when the first
detection was of
Russian presence inside the
DNC's e-mail servers
to today, it's been a very
complicated election
campaign.
I think it's hard to say the
Russians tactically
knew exactly what they were
doing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that gets to
-- Susan Hennessey,
that gets to this question of
whether the
Russian government gave it to
WikiLeaks to
put all of it out there or
whether it was
stolen and that things just got
out of hand.
SUSAN HENNESSEY: Right.
So, one thing that's interesting
is actually
the initial leaks from the
documents were
not leaked through WikiLeaks.
They were actually posted on a
stand-alone
site by a hacker reporting to
the Guccifer
2.0, it was only this latest
e-mail dump that
actually went through WikiLeaks.
There are reasons to believe the
Russians
might have handed it over, but
there are alternative
explanations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you mean
reasons to
believe the Russians might have
handed it
over?
You mean because of what we have
been talking
about here?
SUSAN HENNESSEY: Right.
So, there's no evidence that a
third party
breached the DNC or the DCCC.
And so it's sort of a logical
inference that
the documents were in one place.
No one else has them, and they
wind up in
another.
That said, it's possible the
documents were
stolen from the Russians
themselves or were
stolen from the DNC by some
third party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What should the
U.S. -- what
are the options, let me put it
that way, Andrew
Weiss, for the U.S. government
in response
to this?
ANDREW WEISS: FBI Director James
Comey came
out recently in the last 24
hours and said
he's looking at the possibility
of naming
the culprit.
And so this has been something
that the U.S.
government has done very seldom
in the past,
where they basically try to name
and shame
and say that we can attribute
this attack
to a state actor, in this
particularly case
potentially Russia.
That's been done very seldom in
the past with
regards to China and North
Korea.
It would be a very big step, if
that's where
the U.S. government ends up.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is that the
strongest step
the United States could take?
SUSAN HENNESSEY: Certainly not.
That's sort of -- that's the
preliminary step,
kind of the most basic step they
could take.
The additional levels of
attribution might
be to the actual individuals
behind these
attacks who are operating
perhaps in the Russian
state.
And so in the past, the
Department of Justice
has indicted Iranian
cyber-hackers, Chinese
cyber-hackers.
So those kinds of indictments
would be sort
of an escalation.
But really there is the full
scope of options
in terms of how to respond.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Naming
individuals who are
part of the Russian government?
SUSAN HENNESSEY: Sure.
So, imposing financial sanctions
against individuals
who are suspected or believed of
being involved.
There is also a benefit and an
embarrassment
to just saying that we know who
it is and
sort of putting that out into
the public space.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Andrew Weiss,
what are the
-- I guess the possible
repercussions if the
U.S. does not only name and
shame, but go
even further?
ANDREW WEISS: I think we're in a
real moment
of uncertainty.
People think about what's going
to happen
in this election campaign.
You have to think about, where
will U.S.-Russia
relations be in three or four
months?
I frankly have no idea.
The question is, are we in a
spiral, or are
we in a possible moment where
there could
be a worse confrontation at some
point, military-to-military,
an inadvertent escalatory
moment?
So, it's a very dangerous
situation.
I think it's really important
for the U.S.
policy community to take a deep
breath and
evaluate our situation very
carefully before
rushing into anything.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's clear
this is a
story that, just as the days
have gone by,
we have learned more, and today
this new information
about the Clinton campaign.
So, we will see what more comes
out.
Andrew Weiss, Susan Hennessey,
thank you both.
SUSAN HENNESSEY: Thanks for
having us.
ANDREW WEISS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We return to the
-- stay with
us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Mark Shields
and David Brooks analyze this
week at the
Democratic National Convention;
and a building
boom that's threatening London's
underground
history.
But, first: some of the moments
that stand
out of a wild two weeks at the
political conventions.
Here's a look.
GOV.
CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), New Jersey:
As to Hillary
Clinton, the charge of putting
herself ahead
of America, guilty or not
guilty?
CROWD: Guilty!
SEN.
TED CRUZ (R), Texas: If you love
our country,
and love our children as much as
I know that
you do, stand and speak and vote
your conscience,
vote for candidates up and down
the ticket
who you trust to defend our
freedom, and to
be faithful to the Constitution.
(BOOING)
GOV.
MIKE PENCE (R-IN), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
I'm a Christian, a conservative
and a Republican,
in that order.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I have joined the political
arena, so that
the powerful can no longer beat
up on people
who cannot defend themselves.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: Nobody knows the
system better
than me.
(LAUGHTER)
DONALD TRUMP: Which is why I
alone can fix
it.
MICHELLE OBAMA, First Lady: When
you have
the nuclear codes at your
fingertips and the
military in your command, you
can't make snap
decisions.
You can't have a thin skin or a
tendency to
lash out.
You need to be steady and
measured and well-informed.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
I have known Hillary Clinton for
25 years.
Hillary Clinton will make an
outstanding president,
and I am proud to stand with her
tonight.
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (I), Former
Mayor of New
York: There are times when I
disagree with
Hillary.
But let me tell you, whatever
our disagreements
may be, I have come here to say,
we must put
them aside for the good of our
country.
And we must unite around the
candidate who
can defeat a dangerous
demagogue.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JOSEPH BIDEN, Vice President of
the United
States: Think about that.
Think about everything you
learned as a child,
no matter where you were raised.
How can there be pleasure in
saying, "You're
fired"?
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
Hillary Clinton and I are
(SPEAKING SPANISH).
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SEN.
TIM KAINE: And we share this
basic belief.
It's simple.
Do all the good you can, and
serve one another.
Pretty simple.
That's what I'm about.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
BILL CLINTON, Former President
of the United
States: If you were sitting
where I'm sitting
and you heard what I have heard
at every dinner
conversation, at every lunch
conversation,
on every long walk, you would
say, this woman
has never been satisfied with
the status quo
in anything.
She always wants to move the
ball forward.
That is just who she is.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
We're not a fragile people.
We're not a frightful people.
Our power doesn't come from some
self-declared
savior promising that he alone
can restore
order, as long as we do things
his way.
We don't look to be ruled.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR, Retired NBA
Player: I'm
Michael Jordan, and I'm here
with Hillary.
(LAUGHTER)
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: I said that
because I
know that Donald Trump couldn't
tell the difference.
(LAUGHTER)
KHIZR KHAN, Father of Killed
U.S. Soldier:
Donald Trump, you are asking
Americans to
trust you with their future.
Let me ask you, have you even
read the U.S.
Constitution?
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
KHIZR KHAN: I will gladly lend
you my copy.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
And most of all, don't believe
anyone who
says, "I alone can fix it."
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: He's
forgetting every
last one of us.
Americans don't say, I alone can
fix it.
We say, we will fix it together.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: That's
-- that's the
country we're fighting for.
That's the future we're working
toward.
And so, my friends, it is with
humility, determination,
and boundless confidence in
America's promise,
that I accept your nomination
for president
of the United States!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And with that, we
turn to the
analysis of Shields and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks.
So, gentlemen, looking back on
those highlights
from both Cleveland and
Philadelphia, what
does it make you think, Mark?
MARK SHIELDS: It makes me think
that the Democrats
-- this was my 24th convention.
And I think this was as good a
Democratic
Convention as I have seen since
the 1976 convention,
which nominated Jimmy Carter,
which was -- he
left with a 30-point lead over
President Ford.
I just thought it was a
spectacularly successful
convention.
I don't think Hillary Clinton's
speech was
spectacular, but I don't think
she's a spectacular
speaker.
But I thought their messages
worked.
And certainly the national
security and preempting
both faith and country and
patriotism from
the Republicans, which had been
the Republican
symbols for so long, was
effective.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
Well, the Democrats had the
better convention
by a long way.
It's rare we see the gap so big,
frankly.
They controlled the debate.
Donald Trump tried to set up
this debate where
it was going to be globalists
vs. nationalists,
and the Republicans were going
to be the nationalists.
But, if anything, the Democrats
looked more
patriotic and more nationalist
at the end
of these two.
And so that was a big win.
And I agree with Mark.
The whole presentation was just
powerful.
It's funny.
Maybe it just because I'm tired,
but the further
away you get, the less you know
about the
convention, and it boils down to
a core theme,
to one thing.
And so for the Republican
Convention, I think
of Trump's speech and sort of
the darkness,
the fear of crime, the need for
a strong arm
really, and so that one core
theme.
And then, for the Democratic
one, I really
think of Trump erratic.
I think that was the big message
that came
out.
The positive agenda for Hillary
was a little
less vibrant.
And of those two, I do think
that the -- right
now, at least in my mind, the
Democratic theme
is eclipsing the Republican one.
So, the Democrats won this
volley, I think.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Mark, we're
hearing today
that the numbers of people
watching the conventions
was a little bit higher for the
Republican
Convention.
How much do these conventions
set the stage
for the rest of this campaign?
I think it's, what, 101 days
between now and
the Election Day.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, if David and
I are right,
which is...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ninety-nine
percent of the
time.
MARK SHIELDS: ... a very long
shot, then Hillary
Clinton should get a bounce out
of this convention,
I mean a bounce in the polls.
I think it's probably conceded
that Donald
Trump got about a three-point
bounce out of
his conventions.
He's closed the gap that much.
And if she doesn't, I mean,
after what was
a good convention -- this is
when you have
the unfiltered message of your
party and your
candidate to the country, even a
slice of
the country, for four full days
-- then I
think it's some cause for alarm
for the Democrats.
But, you know, I think what
we're looking
at next, Judy, is the debates.
You know, barring something
major, a mishap
on one side or a tragedy or a
scandal, I think,
you know, we're looking at the
debates, because
I think that's the kind of race
it's going
to be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And they don't
start, David,
until the end of September and
then into October.
So, do these conventions, do
they define this
race going forward?
DAVID BROOKS: I think to some
degree.
But now it's my turn to rain on
progressive
overconfidence, because the two
weakest speeches,
major ones, for the Democrats
were the two
candidates, not that they were
bad.
They just weren't up to the
level of Biden's,
the Obamas, and Bloomberg's
even.
And so you have got two
candidates on the
Democratic side who may be
making sense, may
agree or disagree.
They're just not as vibrant
personalities
as Donald Trump.
And so, over the next month,
until the debates,
I expect Trump to do what he's
done very successfully,
which is, whether you like him
or not, he
will be the dominant player
here.
He will be the one on offense.
He will be the one serving
volleys, and it
may be some weird stuff about
the Russians,
but he will be controlling
things a little
more than he probably did over
the last two
weeks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And is that now
the way elections
get decided, Mark?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, let me just
dissent a
little bit from David.
I think Donald Trump is
obviously the more
colorful, the more flamboyant,
the more dominant
personality.
But take the Russia issue.
You open up the convention, and
you have got
a report that the Democratic
Party has been
hacked by the Russians, e-mails,
the e-mails
of the Democratic Party, which
is a headline
and words that you don't want,
if you're Hillary
Clinton's campaign.
And Donald Trump immediately
takes the story
and basically steps on the
advantage he has
and say, well, the Russians, who
am I to tell
Putin?
You know, the Russians ought to
come in and
continue to hack our -- and find
out where
the e-mails are.
I mean, it was -- it was wrong,
it was irresponsible,
and it was unhelpful to his
candidacy.
In a strange way -- there are a
couple thoughts
of David that reminded me of
this -- an awful
lot of people don't ordinarily
have day-to-day
contact with police officers.
In both Cleveland and
Philadelphia, the police
were enormously, enormously
impressive, I
mean, their temperament, to use
a word that's
going to be central...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You don't mean
the police on
the stage.
You mean the police in the
street.
MARK SHIELDS: No, I mean the
police in the
streets.
I mean, I really -- the
interaction with the
police.
They had to be tired.
You know, they had a lot of
jerks, including
several in the press.
And it was hot.
It was hot.
And they had long hours, and
they were just
so professional and so cool.
But it strikes me that it's the
competing
pronouns that the Democrats did
effectively,
I vs. we.
It's we the people.
And Donald Trump says nobody
knows it like
me, I can do it.
And I think that was a very
effective construct
in framing this race.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
Just to pick up on the cops, we
don't really
-- I hadn't really thought about
it, but we
all agree they did such a good
job by not
being overaggressive.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: But for Donald
Trump -- just
the political effects of that,
Donald Trump's
argument is essentially it's
1968, the cities
are burning.
And if something really bad had
happened in
one of those two cities, that
would have underlined
that theme.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
DAVID BROOKS: And nothing bad
happened.
And so -- but that doesn't mean
we're not
-- it's settled.
Events are in the saddle here.
If ISIS really begins a sort of
continual
series of weird, random attacks
around the
world, then that does underline
the theme.
And that goes back to something
I have been
saying for the last couple of
weeks, is, we're
not quite sure what ball game
we're playing
here.
If we're playing the normal
political rules,
where you want to have people
loving each
other, compassionate, working
together, being
generous toward each other,
being well-informed
about the issues, well, if those
are the rules,
then the Democrats are doing
really well.
But if we're in some sort of
Hobbesian state
of nature, where you just want a
strong man
who has no compassion, who you
just want a
toughness, well, then that -- by
those rules,
Donald Trump is going to do a
little better.
So, we will figure out what game
we're playing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which is what the
Democrats
were trying to say for three or
four days
-- for four days, Mark, which,
is, we don't
need this.
We're a strong people.
We're a good people and we don't
need some
bully telling us what to do.
MARK SHIELDS: No, exactly.
And the president did that, I
thought.
President Obama did.
In a strange way, Hillary
Clinton was helped
and victimized by Mr. and Mrs.
Obama.
I think Michelle Obama gave a
speech...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Victimized?
Really?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, politically,
because they
were just -- you were talking
about -- I mean,
Michelle Obama was probably
better than Barack
Obama, if you think about it.
Her speech is a masterful,
masterful speech.
And she delivered it in a
persuasively conversational
tone.
You can't say this is a
political attack or
a political document.
It was just -- so, in a strange
way, she's
getting compared to -- instead
of to Donald
Trump, she's being compared to
Joe Biden,
who gave this emotional
valedictory about
America and his life, and both
Obamas, who
were dominant.
Tim Kaine reminds me of -- Peter
Hart, the
pollster, has a question when he
asks about
presidential or vice
presidential candidates,
what kind of a neighbor would
they be?
And several Democrats -- George
W. Bush was
always seen to be a good
friendly neighbor
who would pick up the newspapers
if you were
out of town or check your mail.
Tim Kaine is a good neighbor.
He's kind of the dependable, you
know, friendly,
helpful.
And, you know, he would be over
there.
He would give you a hand if
there were a problem
at the house.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But does that
help Hillary
Clinton?
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: It does, because
it gives Hillary
Clinton -- what they didn't
address at this
convention is Hillary Clinton's
problems of
her personality and her secrecy.
They tried through testimony.
She just can't open up herself.
She can't make fun of herself.
She can't be self-deprecating,
or at least,
if she can, she wasn't, made the
decision
not to be.
And so Tim Kaine kind of gives
the warmer,
human face of the Democrats.
DAVID BROOKS: But if she's
elected, this will
be an issue and this will be a
problem for
her.
It's important for presidents to
emotionally
connect, with the country in
times of crisis,
but also with people in
Washington.
If you can't emotionally connect
-- and Obama
is not the greatest, but he can
at least do
it -- then people won't be with
you when the
times are hard.
There will just always be a
distance between
you and the people around you.
Now, she can clearly emotionally
connect with
her intimates within the zone of
trust.
It's just the wall outside the
zone of trust
is so impermeable.
And so I do think -- I was
really struck,
like every pundit, from Mark and
I on down...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, on down,
for sure.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You guys are
right up there.
DAVID BROOKS: Everyone is
saying, show some
vulnerability, emote, emote,
emote.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
DAVID BROOKS: And they must have
said that
internally.
And she's still -- she's such a
private person.
She just didn't do it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it almost
sounds like you're
both saying -- I don't want to
use the word
doomed, but that the cake is
baked, and she's
not going to be able to relate
and open up.
I mean, but Donald Trump is
relating...
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: This was a great
opportunity
to open up.
It was on her terms.
It was nonadversarial.
It was in her control.
And she chose not to.
I do disagree just with David on
her vs. Obama
inside in dealing.
I think she would be far
superior to President
Obama, who is basically remote,
aloof and
not involved with -- he doesn't
deal with
members of Congress.
And he plays golf every time
with three staff
members.
He never, ever thinks of
including a John
Boehner or anybody else, which
is very easy
to do.
But he obviously views golf as
his time, and
that alone.
But she showed, while in the
Senate, that
ability to connect and reach
across and to
forge alliances.
I think she will be better.
But I think the problem with
connecting emotionally
with the people remains at large
is -- in
a wholesale way.
DAVID BROOKS: I stand corrected.
That seems true to me, what he
just said.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But then you're
getting back
-- and we just have a minute or
so -- but
you're getting to the point that
somebody
who is good at governing may not
be great
at campaigning.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
MARK SHIELDS: And the inverse,
too.
There are people who are great
campaigners
who aren't...
DAVID BROOKS: Right.
And we can certainly point to
examples of
that.
I think Mitch Daniels, the
former governor
of Indiana was a case of that,
who was an
outstanding administrator.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
DAVID BROOKS: He was not a bad
governor.
He could be playful, but -- or
communicator.
I'm just saying it will -- I
think will be
-- every candidate comes into
the White House,
assuming if she wins, or if she
does win,
with strengths and weaknesses.
This will be a weakness, because
this was
such an easy moment to show some
heart.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it was just
a thrill
to spend the last two weeks with
-- for Gwen
and me to spend the last two
weeks.
MARK SHIELDS: Oh, Judy.
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: You couldn't pass
a polygraph
test right now.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We just want you
to go and
get some sleep this weekend,
like the rest
of us want.
Thank you very much.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will see
you next Friday.
MARK SHIELDS: Thanks very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One of the
world's great cities
is experiencing a building boom
above ground
and a digging boom below.
Jeffrey Brown reports from
London.
It's part of our ongoing Culture
at Risk series.
JEFFREY BROWN: Along London's
famous skyline,
cranes and towers of all kinds,
and hundreds
more under construction or in
the planning
stages.
The recent Brexit vote may raise
new questions
about the future, but there's no
question
this city has been going through
an unprecedented
reshaping.
Financial Times architecture
critic Edwin
Heathcote.
EDWIN HEATHCOTE, Financial
Times: In the center
of the city, there's never been
anything on
this scale.
And when I say never, I mean,
really, there
never has been anything on this
scale.
So, even after the Great Fire of
London, things
were only rebuilt to five or six
stories.
JEFFREY BROWN: When you say
never, you mean
-- because there's a lot of
history here.
EDWIN HEATHCOTE: A lot of
history.
JEFFREY BROWN: You mean never.
EDWIN HEATHCOTE: I mean never.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: In this global
financial capital,
property prices have
skyrocketed, along with
the demand to build, and there's
no place
to go but up.
While Heathcote sees individual
buildings
he likes, he worries about the
larger picture.
EDWIN HEATHCOTE: Now we have a
much more generic,
much more globalized city, in
which the architecture
is much more like Chicago or
Singapore.
And so it is changing in the
texture and the
architectural language and the
materials and
the scale.
JEFFREY BROWN: But even as this
city's future
grows skyward, another part of
London's story,
its past, is being explored in a
very different
direction, below ground.
HEATHER KNIGHT, Archaeologist:
If we were
standing here on, say, a lovely
summer's afternoon
in the 1590s, we'd actually be
standing on
the stage of the Curtain
Playhouse.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Curtain was
one of the
16th century theaters where
several Shakespeare
plays, including "Romeo and
Juliet," were
first staged.
The archaeological work here
suggests it was
originally built within a
preexisting tenement
or apartment house, functioned
as a playhouse
through the golden age of
Elizabethan theater
in the 16th and 17th centuries,
and then reverted
to residential use, in other
words, like so
much of underground London, use
and re-use,
urban decay and renewal, through
layers of
history.
Archaeologist Heather Knight:
HEATHER KNIGHT: It's not just
the archaeology
of the building we're finding.
We're also finding personal
objects, things
that belonged to people who used
this space,
so, things like hair combs and,
actually,
at my feet, we have got clay
tobacco pipes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Literally a pipe?
HEATHER KNIGHT: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Can I pick it up?
HEATHER KNIGHT: Go on.
I will let you.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, what is this?
MD+IT /MD-IT /HEATHER KNIGHT:
So, OK,
well, this dates from around --
that is from
around 1740.
And I think you're the first
person to pick
that up in a few hundred years.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's pretty
cool.
HEATHER KNIGHT: One of the
things we found
that we're quite excited about
is the bird
whistle.
It's like a little ceramic egg
cup.
In any other context, just a
toy, but here,
associated with the playhouse,
could it have
been used in performance?
Could it be special effects for,
say, "Romeo
and Juliet," where Juliet is
talking about
nightingales and larks.
JEFFREY BROWN: The work on the
Curtain is
being carried out for the
developer of a large
new complex called, yes, The
Stage.
It will include a 37-story
residential tower,
two office buildings, retail
stores and restaurants.
Once finished, the excavation
site will be
part of the development, and
open to the public.
Developer Robert Allan says the
connection
to the Bard makes this a rare
melding of building
and archaeology.
ROBERT ALLAN, Developer: That is
one of many
considerations when you come to
do development
in London.
But the benefit of the
archaeology, actually,
is it actually can be a positive
as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: In this case,
it's such a positive
that you're naming the place The
Stage.
ROBERT ALLAN: It is, yes.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: So it's sort of
marketing Shakespeare,
in a sense.
ROBERT ALLAN: Yes, for us, it's
as good as
it's ever going to get, I think,
to be fair.
JEFFREY BROWN: Protection of
historical remains
has been required in Britain at
all construction
sites since the early 1990s.
Many treasures have been
revealed along the
way, including the first
handwritten document
known from Britain at the
excavations for
Bloomberg's new European
headquarters.
The mix of development and
archaeology isn't
always smooth, but in London's
largest construction
project of all, it was
unavoidable.
We went deep underground for a
look at the
enormous Crossrail project, a
new 73-mile
east-west railway system due to
open in 2018.
It's intended to ease London's
overcrowded
transit system and roads.
It's costly and controversial,
but it's also
led to uncovering more than
10,000 artifacts
that span millions of years.
JAY CARVER, Crossrail: They're
making new
discoveries every week.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jay Carver serves
as lead archaeologist
for Crossrail.
JAY CARVER: The big challenge
for archaeology
is to integrate with the
construction program.
That's the biggest risk,
discovering something
of complexity that's going to
take a long
time, and if you weren't ready,
prepared for
that, there's going to be a big
problem for
a project like Crossrail.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's going to be
a big problem
in terms of, you can't be
building until you
deal with it?
JAY CARVER: That's right.
So, we spend several years
really researching
in detail every location where
the new railway's
going to be constructed.
JEFFREY BROWN: Here at what will
be the new
Liverpool Street station, the
archaeology
has been completed, but the
findings were
fascinating.
JAY CARVER: A Roman road
crossing right across
the station construction site,
and alongside
that Roman road, a burial
ground, quite a
macabre one.
Several decapitated burials were
found, and
a large group of skulls
seemingly just on
their own.
The site was also a burial
ground from the
16th to the 17th centuries.
So we have got a new window,
really, on all
these lives of Londoners of that
time, including,
without a doubt, some multiple
burials that
are probably victims of the
Great Plague.
JEFFREY BROWN: And that led to
our last stop,
the Museum of London
Archaeology, a lab where
many of the underground
artifacts have been
taken for cleaning, drying,
proper storage,
and study.
Here, we were shown a 1st
century Roman iron
stylus for writing in wax, a
third century
spearhead, and a fragment of
16th century
armor.
DON WALKER, Human Osteologist:
And you can
see quite severe pitting and
actually bone
destruction.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then there
was this young
woman, found in the dirt of the
Liverpool
Street station we'd visited.
Don Walker, a human osteologist,
or bone specialist,
said she'd probably died of
syphilis.
But she'd lived in the 1600s, a
period that
saw several major outbreaks of
plague, including
the Great Plague of 1665.
DON WALKER: We know from the
parish records
that people who died of the
Plague were sent
to this burial ground.
JEFFREY BROWN: DNA from the
teeth of skeletons
like this can be examined and
diseases studied.
DON WALKER: Scientists
particular want to
know, what is the relationship
between the
Black Death in the 14th century
and these
later outbreaks in Europe?
What is the evolutionary
history?
Because we're not very good at
handling or
dealing with new outbreaks of
different diseases
or reemerging diseases.
You can tell from SARS and AIDS.
And so the more we can know
about the evolution
of such diseases in the past,
the more we
can prepare for the future,
perhaps.
JEFFREY BROWN: Secrets
underground that may
help us today, even as the grand
old city
goes through the latest of its
changes above.
From London, I'm Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, another
installment
in our Brief But Spectacular
series, where
we ask interesting people to
describe their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from New York
Times political
reporter Amy Chozick, who has
been providing
The Times with regular coverage
of Hillary
Clinton since her first
presidential run in
2008.
AMY CHOZICK, The New York Times:
From the
outside, it looks like, oh,
you're covering
Hillary Clinton, and it's like
the most exciting
news story of the year.
The day-to-day is a lot of,
like, schlepping
around to Holiday Inn Expresses,
eating out
of your lap in plastic
containers on a bus,
pretty grueling, not all that
glamorous.
I had been a foreign
correspondent based in
Tokyo with The Wall Street
Journal.
And my editors moved me back to
the U.S. and
they said, how would you like to
cover Hillary
Clinton?
I didn't know what a caucus was,
which the
Clinton people joked with me
years later,
that that's OK, they didn't know
what a caucus
was either.
And I saw Hillary Clinton's arc
from thinking,
oh, I'm assigned to Hillary
Clinton, I'm riding
this to the White house, to all
of a sudden
seeing her lose to Obama and
also, when she
was losing, become a very
different type of
candidate, less guarded, more
willing to communicate
with the reporters who traveled
with her,
just sort of having fun when it
looked like
she had nothing left to lose.
She would do this famous game
that -- the
campaign trail, and that was
rolling oranges
down the aisle of the plane.
The press sits in the back,
would write a
question on the orange and roll
it up to the
front of the plane.
And then she writes her answer
and rolls it
back.
Well, my editor said, OK, that's
enough.
We really need you to go be with
the Obama
campaign.
I saw him, just, you know, keep
a crowd just
raptured.
And my takeaway was that this
guy is incredibly
charming to a crowd of 50,000
people, and
Hillary is incredibly charming
to a crowd
of five, you know?
And that's been a struggle for
her current
campaign.
It's a pretty historic
phenomenon that this
first female nominee of a major
party has
a predominantly female press
corps covering
her.
I don't think we think about it
very much,
you know, on a day to day, but
it's certainly
more female than 2008 or any of
the press
corps I have seen.
Writing a tough story about a
candidate who
you're going to see the next
day, whose advisers
you're going to be in very close
contact with
the next day, is inherently
awkward.
With Hillary Clinton, I know she
takes these
things pretty personally, the
coverage, but
I also always think of her as
one of those,
like, kid's dolls that you punch
and they
bounce back up.
I mean, she has bounced back
from so much
difficult coverage, whether it's
Whitewater,
Monica.
I mean, you could -- decades of
coverage.
And I think that's very much
formed her impression
of the political media, rightly
and wrongly.
And so there's not a lot she
hasn't seen at
this point.
My name is Amy Chozick, and this
is my Brief
But Spectacular take on covering
Hillary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
more of our
Brief But Spectacular series on
our Web site.
That's PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
Also online: Artists are
rallying behind a
poet imprisoned in Saudi Arabia,
raising awareness
through Twitter and by bringing
his work to
larger audiences through
translation.
You can read about their
activism and more
on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs
from our PBS colleagues.
Gwen Ifill is preparing for
"Washington Week,"
which airs later this evening.
Here's a preview:
GWEN IFILL: Hello Judy.
After two weeks on the road,
we're back in
the home studio with a lot of
questions to
answer, chief among them: Now
that it's official,
what is this general election
race going to
look like?
Will it be a tweetstorm, or an
old-fashioned
bus tour?
And is it the toss-up so many
pollsters are
predicting?
We will do our best to tackle it
all tonight
on "Washington Week" -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you, Gwen.
We will be watching.
And on "PBS NewsHour Weekend":
climate refugees
right here in the United States.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the past 60
years, 98
percent of this island has
disappeared.
This is what it looked like in
1963, about
11-miles-long and
five-miles-wide.
This is what it looks like
today, about two-miles-long
and a quarter-of-a-mile-wide.
There are multiple causes for
the continuing
land loss, including decades of
oil and gas
canals speeding up erosion, and
the sinking
of the land by three feet in the
past century,
along with eight inches of sea
level rise.
One effect?
The 60 or so people still living
here must
move, because the island is
becoming uninhabitable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's tomorrow
night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
And we will be back right here
on Monday with
a look at the demographic
challenges facing
a rising China finding its
footing on the
world stage.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.